
MD5DEEP 
---------------------------------------------------------
Md5deep recursively computes MD5 message digests of input files.

Details on how to use md5deep are in the man page.

The MD5 algorithm is defined in RFC 1321:
http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1321.txt

The SHA1 algorithm is defined in FIPS PUB 180:
http://www.itl.nist.gov/fipspubs/fip180-1.htm

md5deep was written by Special Agent Jesse Kornblum, United States Air
Force Office of Special Investigations. Send all correspondence to
md5deep@jessekornblum.com

md5deep is a work of the US Government. In accordance with 17 USC 105,
works of the US Government are not entitled to Copyright protection. This
program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.




INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS 
---------------------------------------------------------

Instructions for Linux, Solaris, OS X, *BSD, and Windows are provided below.
For Windows, it's a LOT easier to just download the binary from 
http://md5deep.sourceforge.net/#download

Note that you will need to have root access to install md5deep in the
default location!


Linux:
--------------------------
$ make linux
# make install


Solaris
--------------------------
$ make solaris
# make install


Mac OS X  (note the different command to install!) 
--------------------------
$ make mac
# make macinstall


*BSD, and other Unicies
--------------------------
$ make unix
# make install



If you ever need to remove md5deep from your system:

# make uninstall


----------------------------------------------------------------------
COMPILING FOR MICROSOFT WINDOWS(R)

The easiest way to get md5deep for Windows is to download the binary 
version. The current binary is available at:

http://md5deep.sourceforge.net/#download

If you want to compile md5deep yourself, I recommend using the (Free) 
MingGW compiler. 

First, obtain the MinGW toolkit from:  http://www.mingw.org/ Install MinGW
according to the documentation. You will also need the "make" and "strip"
components of mingw. Then change into the md5deep directory and enter:

C:\md5deep\> make windows

(make is installed by default as \mingw\bin\mingw32-make. You may need
to type the whole long filename!)


----------------------------------------------------------------------
CROSS COMPILING LINUX->WIN32

The MinGW compiler can also be used to cross-compile md5deep for Win32 
from a linux platform. (This is how the developer makes the Win32 builds!)
The MinGW FAQ has a script that downloads, configures, and installs the
MinGW compiler on a linux system:
http://www.mingw.org/mingwfaq.shtml#faq-cross

Once MinGW is installed on your linux system, edit the Makefile value for
CROSSBASE with the $PREFIX you used for MinGW. Then just do:

$ make cross

And you should have a working md5deep.exe and sha1deep.exe executables 
for Win32.


----------------------------------------------------------------------
CYGWIN

Compiling md5deep using the Cygwin environment is *NOT* supported. Cygwin
does not contain the libgen library, which is required for md5deep. (There
is a version of libgen available at
http://anfaenger.de/cygwin/cygwin-1.5/libgen/ , but I don't know much
about it and can't vouch for its effectiveness or correctness.) If you
want to try using md5deep under Cygwin, you MUST install this libgen
library first.

Next, you will need to add "-liberty" (without the quotes) to the LINK_OPT
directive at the top of the Makefile.

With these two changes, it's possible to compile md5deep under Cygwin
using the "make unix" directive, but this is not recommended. Not only
will the resulting executable require the cygwin1.dll file to run, but the
output for each file will be in "cygdrive" notation, which takes up extra
space and may be confusing to those not familiar with the Cygwin
environment.





Microsoft Windows is a registered trademark of the Microsoft Corporation.
